---
date: 2015-07-14 20:57
description: WWDC - 2015
filename: wwdc-2015
tags: 
---
Summarised noted, mostly for myself, of interesting 2015 WWDC sessions. I'll update them as I watch

###[State of the Platform](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=102)

**App thinning**

- Should happen automatically.
- Downloadable resource/bundles from iTunes Connect

**BitCode**

- Optimises binary at submission time. 
- xCode 7 setting should be enabled by default. 

#####watchOS2
Bringing native watch apps in watchOS2

**Complications**

- Data is driven by a timeline so that it's accurate at the time of raising your wrist
- Time line can change via "scheduled updates" i.e. weather
- Complication can be updated by a push message
- Timeline feature

**Notification**

- Full screen notifications
- With custom action buttons

####Foundation Technologies
**Security**

- App transport security 
- Automatically enforce best practise
- NSURLSession has it be default, might need to add url exception list incase server is not ready.

**IPV6**

- Mac can emulate IPV6 network via personal hotspot.
- All apps must be IPV6 compliant for submission on iOS9

**Internationalization**

- `NSPersonalNameFormatter`, can give first name as per country.
- Left-to-right languages is now left-to-right on the entire UI. Should be for free if using standard components.

**Universal Links**

- Host a file on website listing url application handles natively
- `NSUserActivity` wraps up the link

**Search**

- Three ways to index content
- App indexing extension, using by CoreSpot to periodically index your app's content
- `NSUserActivity`, used to record what your user has been up to.
- Web Markup, indexed by Apple's web crawler.

**Multitasking**

- Must use adaptive layout, **size classes**, **dynamic type** for text and **autolayout**
- Size classes can change _regular_|_compact_ to _compact_|_compact_ as you resize the split view

**SWIFT**

- New error handling, **try/catch**
- Availability checking to check if features/functions are available to the iOS
- Protocol programming??
- **guard** to check conditions and bail on function
- **generics** in objc-c

**xCode 7**

- **header file** view of SWIFT code
- rich text documentation
- playgrounds
- **stackview**
- new profiler/debugger helps with energy usage
- new instruments
- address sanitiser to help debug memory 
- test apis
- test performance
- user interface testing
- code coverage 

* * *

###[Introducing watchOS 2.0](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=105)

#####What's new in WatchKit
New crown activated selectors.

- **List**, **stack** and **sequence** selectors. 
- Last two work only with graphics.
- Background can move in relation to the selection index.

**Animation**

- Similar to `UIViewAnimation` with blocks. See video [Layout and Animation Techniques for WatchKit](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=216).

**Haptic engine**

- Access to enumeration of types of haptic feedback to use.

**Audio recorder and speaker access.**

**Video playback**

- Local or off the network.

**Audio playback**

- *"Long form audio"* can be played with something similar to `AVFoundation`
- Difference is music to be played is passed off to system to play to enhance battery life.
- Allows playback even if application is not running

**New Alert API**

Improved visuals

####New/Improved SDKs in watchOS

**ClockKit**

- Complications
- Timelines
- [WWDC Watch complications](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=209)

**WatchConnectivity**

- Normal `NSURLSession` stuff 
- WatchConnectivity to link phone and watch. For uploading data from phone to watch (or visa versa).
- WatchConnectivity uses `Application Context` to send `Dictionary` data to both.
- `FileTransferAPI` to send larger files.
- `SendMessageAPI` can be used to send message from watch to phone, waking up the application. Sending the other way doesn't wake up the watch app.
- [WWDC WatchConnectivity](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=713)

**CoreMotion**

- Enhanced to provide real time motion data to running app.
- Can provider motion data to app not running and batch send the data when app opens.

**Security**

- When watch is removed from wrist it becomes locked.

* * *

### [Introducing Search APIs](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=709)

Three new related search APIs

- **NSUserActivity** for viewed public app content.
- **CoreSpotlight** Any app generated content.
- **Web Markup** App content on web.

##### NSUserActivity

`NSUserActivity` objects are created as user is using your app and added to the On-Device Index.

`NSUserActivity` has properties to describe

- `Title` and `keywords: Set<String>`
- `userInfo` used to repopulate the application state
- `contentAttributeSet` a set of attributes allowing iOS to categorise and display the activity better in the search results.
- `expirationDate` if this activity expires.
- `isActive` informs system this is the active user activity.

If an `NSUserActivity` is designated as **public**, when it's index (via the user using the app) this activity is indexed by the iCloud index and the activity is available to all users via Spotlight. If `NSUserActivity` contains web url, then it's available in Safari such as well.

Making `NSUserDefaults` public doesn't mean it's indexed. Only indexed if searched in spotlight **and** engaged by many users.

By adding `NSUserActivity` to the app you get 

- Hand-off
- Siri reminder *Remind me about this* as demo'ed.

##### CoreSpotlight

Create `CSSearchableItem`, add metadata via `CSSearchableItemAttributeSet` and then add to `CSSearchableIndex` datastore.

When user taps on search result, the unique id of the `CSSearchableItem` is returned and that item can be retrieved from the `CSSearchableIndex` datastore.

The `CSSearchableIndex` 

- Allows for updating and deleting of `CSSearchableItem`
- Batching of updates for large indexes
- `CSSearchableIndexDelegate` and `Extension` so that the index can communicate with your app when in foreground and background.

#####Web Markup

*Applebot* has been crawling the web looking for mobile deep links. *Applebot* searches supports popular standards such as Smart App Banners, Twitter Cards and Facebook's App Links.

New iOS9, **universal links**, link back to your application with normal looking HTML. See [Seamless Linking to Your App](https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2015/?id=509)

##### Ranking

The `NSUserActivity` ranking is determined by many factors

- engagement by many users is key
- speed of linking back to app important. Minimal loading times, view controller presentation and no hurdles such as login.
* * *